Why is this paper important? What is this paper?

79k citations
Pre transformer optimistic views of the field.
Transformers were made in 2017 or something.

In this class we already has a presentation on the transformer.
We even looked at using chat gpt for data analysis.
(find the other papers that we took a look at already too)

This presentation will server as a history lesson to some extent, I will also
provide intuition as to how the models work to some extent.

Very influential paper, cited a lot. Its good to have an understanding of what
this paper is so that you may understand when a paper is cited in a paper that
you may be writing. But also if you are using this technology in your own
papers.

Intro and history.

What is machine learning used for?
	Traditional ml struggles with this. 
		Domain knowledge to make something useful

	How does modern ml make this easier?
		self learning and model architecture. 
			Features are created by model, no more people making features. 
			
			Funny quote, little did they know.

			"Perhaps more surprisingly, deep learning has produced extremely promising
			results for various tasks in natural language understanding, particularly
			topic classification, sentiment analysis, question answering and language
			translation"

			"We think that deep learning will have many more successes in the near
			future because it requires very little engineering by hand, so it can
			easily take advantage of increases in the amount of available computation
			and data. New learning algorithms and architectures that are currently
			being developed for deep neural networks will only accelerate this
			progress."

			Little did they know...
			
Supervised learning

Maybe go through an example of mlp here.
	Show a little of the math, visualize the weights.

Given a bunch of images of different things, machine produces an output vector
with the probability that it thinks that each image is the correct category.

Compute an objective function that measures the distance between the output
scores and the desired pattern of scores. 

Machine adjusts its internal parameters to produce more of a desired output.

These params are called weights.
	There are usually a lot of them. 

"learning algorithm computes a gradient vector that, for each weight, indicates
by what amount the error would increase or decrease if the weight were increased
by a tiny amount. The weight vector is then adjusted in the opposite direction
to the gradient vector."

SGD, this is what it is,

"It is called stochastic because each small set of examples gives a noisy
estimate of the average gradient over all examples. This simple procedure
usually finds a good set of weights surprisingly quickly when compared with far
more elaborate optimization techniques."

try to visualize the averaged out the space of the cost function? idk how that
would be possible tho. could be cool.

"Traditional ML required humans to engineer the space in which the hyperplane
operates. Deep learning learns that space automatically."

Multi layer networks and back propagation.

Multi layer models can be trained with stochastic decent, simplicity of the
solution was not understood until the mid 80's.

"As it turns out, multilayer architectures can be trained by simple stochastic
gradient descent. As long as the modules are relatively smooth functions of
their inputs and of their internal weights, one can compute gradients using the
backpropagation procedure."

- should talk a little about what happens durring gradient decent, and back
	propagation.

"In the late 1990s, neural nets and backpropagation were largely forsaken by the
machine-learning community and ignored by the computer-vision and
speech-recognition communities. It was widely thought that learning useful,
multistage, feature extractors with little prior knowledge was infeasible. In
particular, it was commonly thought that simple gradient descent would get
trapped in poor local minima — weight configurations for which no small change
would reduce the average error"

Thought neural nets were bad. Also hard to get super large datasets.
	Also requires lots of compute. 

2006 - same authors "The researchers introduced unsupervised learning procedures
that could create layers of feature detectors without requiring labelled data"

Advent of fast graphics cards, allowed for much faster training.

2009 revolutionized speech recognition.

2012 versions of the deep network were being developed for android phones.

In smaller datasets, unsupervised pretraining helped to reduce overfitting.

Convolutional neural networks 

This section I can show examples of how they work, show weights of learned kernels

Much easier to train and generalized much better than networks with full
connectivity between adjacent layers. 

They excel using data from multiple arrays.

Layers are kernel layers that find distinct features, and pooling layers that
condense arrays to become smaller. Then feed forward.

"When ConvNet models and monkeys are shown the same picture, the activations of
high-level units in the ConvNet explains half of the variance of random sets of
160 neurons in the monkey's inferotemporal cortex"

"A primitive 1D ConvNet called a time-delay neural net was used for the
recognition of phonemes and simple words"

"By the late 1990s this system was reading over 10% of all the cheques in the
United States"

"Since the early 2000s, ConvNets have been applied with great success to the
detection, segmentation and recognition of objects and regions in images."

"Companies such as Mobileye and NVIDIA are using such ConvNet-based methods in
their upcoming vision systems for cars."
- look into how far they got with this since the paper released.

"Despite these successes, ConvNets were largely forsaken by the mainstream
computer-vision and machine-learning communities until the ImageNet competition
in 2012."

"This success came from the efficient use of GPUs, ReLUs, a new regularization
technique called dropout, and techniques to generate more training examples by
deforming the existing ones"

"ConvNets are now the dominant approach for almost all recognition and detection
tasks4,58,59,63,64,65 and approach human performance on some tasks"
- investigate this further in the modern age, suspect that transformers are
	about as good now.

"A number of companies such as NVIDIA, Mobileye, Intel, Qualcomm and Samsung are
developing ConvNet chips to enable real-time vision applications in smartphones,
cameras, robots and self-driving cars."
- investigate for modern age.


Distributed representation and language processing
Sort of theoretical justification for deep learning:
Two exponential advantages:
1. With n binary features you get 2^n possible combinations So 30 neurons could
represent over 1 billion different concepts

2. Each layer multiplies the expressive power exponentially


The basics of the transformer is here:
one-of-N vector they mention is called a one-hot encoding
Before this natural language processing was based on counting frequencies of
N-grams
	Cannot generalize across semantically related sequences of words.

"whereas neural language models can because they associate each word with a
vector of real valued features, and semantically related words end up close to
each other in that vector space"

Symbolic AI (Old School)
	Represent knowledge as symbols and rules
	e.g., IF animal HAS feathers AND flies THEN animal IS bird
	Very interpretable but rigid and brittle
	Dominated AI research in the 70s and 80s
Neural Networks (Their Argument)
	No explicit rules or symbols
	Just numbers, vectors, and matrix operations
	Learns messy intuitive reasoning from data

This connects directly to the Breiman Two Cultures paper - the tension between:
	Interpretable rule based models
	Black box predictive models
This passage is essentially the deep learning version of that same debate

