Basically just want to retell the story of the article and add my commentary.

Sections build upon each other: like we learn a bit about the basics of machine
learning, and what is deep learning and what are learning algorithms. Then
slowly build up to the innovations over time, until we get to modern day.
	Each section basically starts from first principals and builds upon the
	intuition naturally.

In this class we already has a presentation on the transformer.
We even looked at using chat gpt for data analysis.

Technical overview of AI and ml up to 2015.
Represents the state of AI and ML before the boom caused by transformers.

Published in Nature: the most prestigious scientific journal

70k citations.

All got the 2018 Turing award for their work on deep learning.
Considered the God fathers of Deep Learning

Yann LeCun: Invented CNNs

He developed a number of new machine learning methods, such as a biologically
inspired model of image recognition called convolutional neural networks
(LeNet), the "Optimal Brain Damage" regularization methods, and the
Graph Transformer Networks method (similar to conditional random field), which
he applied to handwriting recognition and Optical character recognition
(OCR). The bank check recognition system that he helped develop was widely
deployed by NCR and other companies.
	This is mentioned in the paper.

Yoshua Bengio: Word embeddings, RNNs
most-cited computer scientist globally (by both total citations and by h-index)
and the most-cited living scientist across all fields (by total citations)

As of August 2024, he has the highest Discipline H-index (D-index, a measure of
the research citations a scientist has received) of any computer scientist.[28]
Thanks to a 2019 article on a novel RNN architecture, Bengio has an Erdős number
of 3

Bengio et al. introduced the neural probabilistic language model, which learned
distributed representations (word embeddings) for words to overcome the "curse
of dimensionality" in natural language processing.



Geoffrey Hinton: Backpropagation, Boltzmann machines

Hinton was co-author of a highly cited paper published in 1986 that popularised
the backpropagation algorithm for training multi-layer neural networks,[13]
although they were not the first to propose the approach
	- This is mentioned in this paper: training deep networks with back
		propagation.

He was also awarded, along with John Hopfield, the 2024 Nobel Prize in Physics
for "foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with
artificial neural networks"

Boltzmann machines, type of NN architecture 1985, by Hinton and friends. 

Basically 3 of the top deep learning and computer science researchers of the
time compile all of the current innovations and brief historical context that
leads up to modern day.

Literally everything they say is backed up by like a nobel prizes worth of
understanding. Makes the meaning so deep and intriguing.

History of ai.

1950s-60s: AI hype cycle 1
1970s:     AI Winter 1 - symbolic AI hits limits
1980s:     Expert systems hype cycle 2
1990s:     AI Winter 2 - expert systems fail
1997: 		 SLTM invented
2000s:     ML revival - SVMs, kernel methods dominate
2012: 		 lexNet, a deep CNN entered the ImageNet competition
					 Crushed every other approach by a massive margin

So what was happening before this paper

Then what happened after?

Quantify the impact.

Mention how well informed these guys are:
Talk about how the paper holds up, how correct they were in their analysis of
the future.
	
	The paper is sort of building hype through talking about deep learning and
	what its done so far. CNN and RNN.

	Also includes philosophical sort of justifications from first principles. 
	
	Predicts: Deep learning for natural language processing.
		They think that this could work better because the training is largely unsupervised.
			Very correct.

		This leads them to talk about: What exactly do we need for this natural
		language processing?
			They say that we probably just need better memory architecture.
				"Attention is all you need" releases in 2017, two years after.


Paper starts talking about back propagation:

The goal is to replace hand engineered features with trainable multilayer
networks. Possible with stochastic gradient decent as long as the activation
functions are relatively smooth. discovered by multiple groups in the 70's and
80's. One is Geoffrey Hinton's (author's) group.

Then I'll start an explanation of back prop through a simple feed forward NN.
	Relu is normally the fastest, thats what they say.
	Will write code examples for this and put images in my presentation.

In the late 1990's they thought that back prop and neural nets were bad:
"Thought learning useful, multistage, feature extractors with little prior
knowledge was infeasible"

Thought that back prop would find poor local minima.
	They refute this here: 

	"Recent theoretical and empirical results strongly suggest that local minima
	are not a serious issue in general. Instead, the landscape is packed with a
	combinatorially large number of saddle points where the gradient is zero, and
	the surface curves up in most dimensions and curves down in the remainder"

		They are sort of just breaking down potential readers doubts about AI. Maybe
		for those researchers that could have heard that deep learning would never
		work in the 90's and just never updated their knowledge.
		

They then talk about a breakthrough in 2006. They don't even mention that it was
them who did it. Hinton and LeCun were part of the CIFAR group mentioned.
	Their breakthrough was they built a model that could detect features without
	labeled data. Cleverly worked around many limitations of the time: not many
	good datasets that were labeled clearly or they were small. Not great
	computing power. Training was difficult since no relu and poor pretraining
	randomization, no dropout. This would lead to gradient minimization.
		This proved that deep learning was worth pursuing and could be useful.
		
	This sort of became the first commercial breakthrough: speech recognition.
		compounded with better gpus 2009. being deployed in android phones by 2012.
			Back in the day GPU's were mostly just used for graphics particularly for
			gamers.
			Once innoviations in training were made there was no need for pretraining
			unless the dataset was small.
				
	This was completely overshadowed by CNN's. 

CNN's:

Explain what CNN's are used for and what they are good at.

One of the authors helped invent them
	Yann LeCun

Basically build CNN and show weights and stuff and explain how they work and how
they are trained. Just build the intuition mostly. 

"When ConvNet models and monkeys are shown the same picture, the activations of
high-level units in the ConvNet explains half of the variance of random sets of
160 neurons in the monkey's inferotemporal cortex"
	Building hype. Like: look, this mirrors the real world so its good.

Basically just condense and include all of this:

"There have been numerous applications of convolutional networks going back to
the early 1990s, starting with time-delay neural networks for speech
recognition and document reading. The document reading system used a ConvNet
trained jointly with a probabilistic model that implemented language
constraints. By the late 1990s this system was reading over 10% of all the
cheques in the United States. A number of ConvNet-based optical character
recognition and handwriting recognition systems were later deployed by
Microsoft. ConvNets were also experimented with in the early 1990s for object
detection in natural images, including faces and hands, and for face
recognition"
	Building more hype. Also LeCun was a part of this.


Image understanding:

"Companies such as Mobileye and NVIDIA are using such ConvNet-based methods in
their upcoming vision systems for cars."
	Building more hype, sort of mentioning that NVIDIA is invested in making chips
	that aid deep learning.
	Also self driving cars like TESTLA
		Could have made a bunch of money if you bought the hype in this paper and
		invested.
			Shows amazing domain understanding.
				Also the hype is warranted, they want you to buy it bc they know that
				its going to work out and that its going to be big. 

Despite these successes, ConvNets were largely forsaken by the mainstream
computer-vision and machine-learning communities until the ImageNet competition
in 2012	

"they achieved spectacular results, almost halving the error rates of the best
competing approaches"

"This success came from the efficient use of GPUs, ReLUs, a new regularization
technique called dropout62, and techniques to generate more training examples by
deforming the existing ones."

Language processing:
Sort of theoretical justification for deep learning:

Two exponential advantages:
1. With n binary features you get 2^n possible combinations So 30 neurons could
represent over 1 billion different concepts

2. Each layer multiplies the expressive power exponentially

This is demonstrated by word processing:
"Each word in the context is presented to the network as a one-of-N vector, that
is, one component has a value of 1 and the rest are 0"
one hot encoding

First layer creates different patter of activations per word vector.
Other layers convert input vector to output vector.
	Foreshadows Word2Vec and modern embedding

Hinton and Bengio have done a lot of work with this.

Simple feed forward network, given like 5 words and told to predict the next.

Small, clean, structured symbol datasets (like Hinton's 1986 family trees experiment) → works well
Large, messy, real-world text corpora → also works well, surprisingly

This must have been contrary to the common opinion of the time.
	This is partially why they are so confident that language is well modeled.

When trained to predict the next word in a news story, for example, the learned
word vectors for Tuesday and Wednesday are very similar, as are the word vectors
for Sweden and Norway

They keep reiterating like: this is crazy, we didn't program it to learn words
like this, it just did it, isn't that crazy.

Getting philosophical again.
Famous distinction in cognitive science:
Fast intuitive inference. vs logical reasoning.
Deep learning is the intuitive reasoning.
	This is also hyping up deep learning.

Old language processing:
"based on counting frequencies of occurrences of short symbol sequences of
length up to N (called N-grams). The number of possible N-grams is on the order
of VN, where V is the vocabulary size"

This is just pretty bad and slow tbh.

Should just build a simple RNN, show graph of structure, exaplain the problems.
	Show LSTM.

Explain that they could translate english to french using RNN.
RNN implicitly learns the rules of the langauge to get some sort of semantic
translation based on meaning rather than naive word translation.

Giving a lot of intuition about the translation of words into vectors
representing meaning.

They seem to be super bullish about this, today it seems just normal because of
how much we hear about and use ai. But at the time, it was indeed very exciting
and interesting.
	Authors to be like c'mon guys why aren't you as excited as we are.


Talk about how lstm works a bit, maybe give diagram, and explain it a bit.
	Just want to give some intuition.

They build the intuition that the biggest bottle neck is the stateless nature of
neural networks. Memory is sort of inherently stateful, and this contradicts
NN's.

They talk about the basics of neural turing machines which give like a tape like
memory to RNN's.
Google deep mind 2014
Basically a differnentiable version of a Turnign machine that uses attention
	Like can read and write to memory depending on some attention variable.


Future of deep learning: Now pretty much.

They are bullish on unsupervised learning.

"Human vision is an active process that sequentially samples the optic array in
an intelligent, task-specific way using a small, high-resolution fovea with a
large, low-resolution surround"

CNN + RNN

- They like reinforcement learning for this to simulate how humans learn
	probably. Like playing a video game.
		- deep mind ai does this very very well. They were very correct about this.


Natural language understanding:
"We expect systems that use RNNs to understand sentences or whole documents will
become much better when they learn strategies for selectively attending to one
part at a time"

"Ultimately, major progress in artificial intelligence will come about through
systems that combine representation learning with complex reasoning. Although
deep learning and simple reasoning have been used for speech and handwriting
recognition for a long time, new paradigms are needed to replace rule-based
manipulation of symbolic expressions by operations on large vectors"

Largely unsolved still but making progress.


