Get the images of the authors.

Maybe show graph represention of classic representation of svm graph, then
perhaps show what ai svm graph may look like.
	Expecting it to be more nuanced. 

What is deep learning? slide before depth justification.

Show the structure of feed forward NN with labels of weights and biases

Show a little math of how the back prop works.

Explain a little more about stochastic grandient decent. Why is it stochastic. A
little math to get intuition.
	Explains why activation functions need to be smooth.

Show weight graph representation of weights of feed forward NN, show that it
doesnt really learn features and its sort of random. Probably should be at the
end of the section.

Show structure of convolutional NN, with lables
Explain that the weights the kernels are learned.

Show what the learned kernel looks like
Show the kernel applied to a sample image from training data.
	Will show that it learns edges and features and stuff.

Boltzmann Machines structure graph

RNN expanded structure representation
	Illustrate that the weights are the same across expanded layers
		This causes the issues

LSTM structure representation.

Explain this also has gradient issues, doesn't remember forever, yet better than
normal RNN.

Slide about the timing of the paper.

Revise Prediction slides :

Just put the prediction and Ill talk about it during the presentation
Just grab the important quotes from each section here, summarize the points of
each one in bullets.

Unsupervised learning91,92,93,94,95,96,97,98 had a catalytic effect in reviving
interest in deep learning, but has since been overshadowed by the successes of
purely supervised learning. Although we have not focused on it in this Review,
we expect unsupervised learning to become far more important in the longer term.
Human and animal learning is largely unsupervised: we discover the structure of
the world by observing it, not by being told the name of every object.

Human vision is an active process that sequentially samples the optic array in
an intelligent, task-specific way using a small, high-resolution fovea with a
large, low-resolution surround. We expect much of the future progress in vision
to come from systems that are trained end-to-end and combine ConvNets with RNNs
that use reinforcement learning to decide where to look. Systems combining deep
learning and reinforcement learning are in their infancy, but they already
outperform passive vision systems99 at classification tasks and produce
impressive results in learning to play many different video games100.

Natural language understanding is another area in which deep learning is poised
to make a large impact over the next few years. We expect systems that use RNNs
to understand sentences or whole documents will become much better when they
learn strategies for selectively attending to one part at a time76,86.

Ultimately, major progress in artificial intelligence will come about through
systems that combine representation learning with complex reasoning. Although
deep learning and simple reasoning have been used for speech and handwriting
recognition for a long time, new paradigms are needed to replace rule-based
manipulation of symbolic expressions by operations on large vectors101.

Conclusion slide.
